HAPTER 1—GENERAL
1.1—Scope of ACI 318
1.1.1 This chapter addresses (a) through (h):
(a) General requirements of this Code
(b) Purpose of this Code
(c) Applicability of this Code
(d) Interpretation of this Code
(e) Definition and role of the building official and the 
licensed design professional
(f) Construction documents
(g) Testing and inspection
(h) Approval of special systems of design, construction, or 
alternative construction materials
1.2—General
1.2.1 ACI 318, “Building Code Requirements for Structural Concrete,” is hereafter referred to as “this Code.”
1.2.2 In this Code, the general building code refers to the 
building code adopted in a jurisdiction. When adopted, this 
Code forms part of the general building code.
1.2.3 The official version of this Code is the English 
language version, using inch-pound units, published by the 
American Concrete Institute.
1.2.4 In case of conflict between the official version of this 
Code and other versions of this Code, the official version 
governs.
1.2.5 This Code provides minimum requirements for the 
materials, design, construction, and strength evaluation of 
structural concrete members and systems in any structure 
designed and constructed under the requirements of the 
general building code.
1.2.6 Modifications to this Code that are adopted by a 
particular jurisdiction are part of the laws of that jurisdiction, but are not a part of this Code.
1.2.7 If no general building code is adopted, this Code 
provides minimum requirements for the materials, design, 
construction, and strength evaluation of members and 
systems in any structure within the scope of this Code.
R1—GENERAL
R1.1—Scope of ACI 318
R1.1.1 This Code includes provisions for the design 
of concrete used for structural purposes, including plain 
concrete; concrete containing nonprestressed reinforcement, 
prestressed reinforcement, or both; composite columns with 
structural steel shapes, pipes, or tubing; and anchoring to 
concrete.
This Code is substantially reorganized from the previous 
version, ACI 318-11. This chapter includes a number of 
provisions that explain where this Code applies and how it 
is to be interpreted.
R1.2—General
R1.2.2 The American Concrete Institute recommends that 
this Code be adopted in its entirety.
R1.2.3 Committee 318 develops the Code in English, 
using inch-pound units. Based on that version, Committee 
318 approved three other versions:
(a) In English using SI units (ACI 318M)
(b) In Spanish using SI units (ACI 318S)
(c) In Spanish using inch-pound units (ACI 318SUS).
Jurisdictions may adopt ACI 318, ACI 318M, ACI 318S, 
or ACI 318SUS.
R1.2.5 This Code provides minimum requirements and 
exceeding these minimum requirements is not a violation of 
the Code.
The licensed design professional may specify project 
requirements that exceed the minimum requirements of this 
Code.
American Concrete Institute – Copyrighted © Material – www.concrete.org
CHAPTER 1—GENERAL 9
CODE COMMENTARY
1
Copyright American Concrete Institute Provided by IHS under license with ACI Licensee=AECOM EW & Canada/5906698006, User=Hummel, George No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS Not for Resale, 02/22/2016 09:04:05 MST --`,,,,```,,,,,`,`,,,`,,`,``,`,-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---
1.3—Purpose
1.3.1 The purpose of this Code is to provide for public 
health and safety by establishing minimum requirements for 
strength, stability, serviceability, durability, and integrity of 
concrete structures.
1.3.2 This Code does not address all design considerations.
1.3.3 Construction means and methods are not addressed 
in this Code.
1.4—Applicability
1.4.1 This Code shall apply to concrete structures designed 
and constructed under the requirements of the general 
building code.
1.4.2 Applicable provisions of this Code shall be permitted 
to be used for structures not governed by the general building 
code.
1.4.3 The design of thin shells and folded plate concrete 
structures shall be in accordance with ACI 318.2, “Building 
Code Requirements for Concrete Thin Shells.”
1.4.4 This Code shall apply to the design of slabs cast on 
stay-in-place, noncomposite steel decks.
1.4.5 For one- and two-family dwellings, multiple singlefamily dwellings, townhouses, and accessory structures to 
R1.3—Purpose
R1.3.1 This Code provides a means of establishing 
minimum requirements for the design and construction of 
structural concrete, as well as for acceptance of design and 
construction of concrete structures by the building officials 
or their designated representatives.
This Code does not provide a comprehensive statement of 
all duties of all parties to a contract or all requirements of a 
contract for a project constructed under this Code.
R1.3.2 The minimum requirements in this Code do not 
replace sound professional judgment or the licensed design 
professional’s knowledge of the specific factors surrounding 
a project, its design, the project site, and other specific or 
unusual circumstances to the project.
R1.4—Applicability
R1.4.2 Structures such as arches, bins and silos, blastresistant structures, chimneys, underground utility structures, gravity walls, and shielding walls involve design and 
construction requirements that are not specifically addressed 
by this Code. Many Code provisions, however, such as 
concrete quality and design principles, are applicable for 
these structures. Recommendations for design and construction of some of these structures are given in the following:
• “Code Requirements for Reinforced Concrete Chimneys and Commentary” (ACI 307-08)
• “Standard Practice for Design and Construction of 
Concrete Silos and Stacking Tubes for Storing Granular 
Materials” (ACI 313-97)
• “Code Requirements for Nuclear Safety-Related 
Concrete Structures and Commentary” (ACI 349)
• “Code for Concrete Containments” (ACI 359)
R1.4.4 In its most basic application, the noncomposite 
steel deck serves as a form, and the concrete slab is designed 
to resist all loads, while in other applications the concrete 
slab may be designed to resist only the superimposed loads. 
The design of a steel deck in a load-resisting application is 
given in “Standard for Non-Composite Steel Floor Deck” 
(SDI NC). The SDI standard refers to this Code for the 
design and construction of the structural concrete slab.
R1.4.5 ACI 332 addresses only the design and construction of cast-in-place footings, foundation walls supported on 
American Concrete Institute – Copyrighted © Material – www.concrete.org
10 BUILDING CODE REQUIREMENTS FOR STRUCTURAL CONCRETE (ACI 318-14) AND COMMENTARY (ACI 318R-14)
CODE COMMENTARY
Copyright American Concrete Institute Provided by IHS under license with ACI Licensee=AECOM EW & Canada/5906698006, User=Hummel, George No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS Not for Resale, 02/22/2016 09:04:05 MST --`,,,,```,,,,,`,`,,,`,,`,``,`,-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---
these types of dwellings, the design and construction of castin-place footings, foundation walls, and slabs-on-ground in 
accordance with ACI 332 shall be permitted.
1.4.6 This Code does not apply to the design and installation of concrete piles, drilled piers, and caissons embedded 
in ground, except as provided in (a) or (b):
(a) For portions in air or water, or in soil incapable of 
providing adequate lateral restraint to prevent buckling 
throughout their length
(b) For structures assigned to Seismic Design Categories 
D, E, and F
1.4.7 This Code does not apply to design and construction 
of slabs-on-ground, unless the slab transmits vertical loads 
or lateral forces from other portions of the structure to the 
soil.
1.4.8 This Code does not apply to the design and construction of tanks and reservoirs.
1.4.9 This Code does not apply to composite design slabs 
cast on stay-in-place composite steel deck. Concrete used 
in the construction of such slabs shall be governed by this 
Code, where applicable. Portions of such slabs designed as 
reinforced concrete are governed by this Code.
1.5—Interpretation
1.5.1 The principles of interpretation in this section shall 
apply to this Code as a whole unless otherwise stated.
continuous footings, and slabs-on-ground for limited residential construction applications. Multiple single-family 
dwellings include structures such as townhomes.
R1.4.6 The design and installation of concrete piles fully 
embedded in the ground is regulated by the general building 
code. Recommendations for concrete piles are given in ACI 
543R. Recommendations for drilled piers are given in ACI 
336.3R. Recommendations for precast prestressed concrete 
piles are given in “Recommended Practice for Design, 
Manufacture, and Installation of Prestressed Concrete 
Piling” (PCI 1993).
Refer to 18.13.4 for supplemental requirements for 
concrete piles, drilled piers, and caissons in structures 
assigned to Seismic Design Categories D, E, and F.
R1.4.7 Detailed recommendations for design and 
construction of slabs-on-ground and floors that do not 
transmit vertical loads or lateral forces from other portions 
of the structure to the soil, and residential post-tensioned 
slabs-on-ground, are given in the following publications:
• ACI 360R presents information on the design of slabson-ground, primarily industrial floors and the slabs 
adjacent to them. The report addresses the planning, 
design, and detailing of the slabs. Background information on the design theories is followed by discussion of 
the soil support system, loadings, and types of slabs. 
Design methods are given for structural plain concrete, 
reinforced concrete, shrinkage-compensating concrete, 
and post-tensioned concrete slabs.
• The Post-Tensioning Institute (DC 10.5-12) provides 
standard requirements for post-tensioned slab-onground foundations, soil investigation, design, and analysis of post-tensioned residential and light commercial 
slabs on expansive soils.
R1.4.8 Requirements and recommendations for the design 
and construction of tanks and reservoirs are given in ACI 
350, ACI 334.1R, and ACI 372R.
R1.4.9 In this type of construction, the steel deck serves 
as the positive moment reinforcement. The design and 
construction of concrete-steel deck slabs is described in 
“Standard for Composite Steel Floor Deck-Slabs” (SDI C). 
The standard refers to the appropriate portions of this Code 
for the design and construction of the concrete portion of 
the composite assembly. SDI C also provides guidance for 
design of composite-concrete-steel deck slabs. The design 
of negative moment reinforcement to create continuity at 
supports is a common example where a portion of the slab is 
designed in conformance with this Code.
R1.5—Interpretation
American Concrete Institute – Copyrighted © Material – www.concrete.org
CHAPTER 1—GENERAL 11
CODE COMMENTARY
1
Copyright American Concrete Institute Provided by IHS under license with ACI Licensee=AECOM EW & Canada/5906698006, User=Hummel, George No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS Not for Resale, 02/22/2016 09:04:05 MST --`,,,,```,,,,,`,`,,,`,,`,``,`,-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---
1.5.2 This Code consists of chapters and appendixes, 
including text, headings, tables, figures, footnotes to tables 
and figures, and referenced standards.
1.5.3 The Commentary consists of a preface, introduction, 
commentary text, tables, figures, and cited publications. The 
Commentary is intended to provide contextual information, but is not part of this Code, does not provide binding 
requirements, and shall not be used to create a conflict with 
or ambiguity in this Code.
1.5.4 This Code shall be interpreted in a manner that 
avoids conflict between or among its provisions. Specific 
provisions shall govern over general provisions.
1.5.5 This Code shall be interpreted and applied in accordance with the plain meaning of the words and terms used. 
Specific definitions of words and terms in this Code shall be 
used where provided and applicable, regardless of whether 
other materials, standards, or resources outside of this Code 
provide a different definition.
1.5.6 The following words and terms in this Code shall be 
interpreted in accordance with (a) through (e):
(a) The word “shall” is always mandatory.
(b) Provisions of this Code are mandatory even if the word 
“shall” is not used.
(c) Words used in the present tense shall include the future.
(d) The word “and” indicates that all of the connected 
items, conditions, requirements, or events shall apply.
(e) The word “or” indicates that the connected items, 
conditions, requirements, or events are alternatives, at 
least one of which shall be satisfied.
1.5.7 In any case in which one or more provisions of this 
Code are declared by a court or tribunal to be invalid, that 
ruling shall not affect the validity of the remaining provisions of this Code, which are severable. The ruling of a court 
or tribunal shall be effective only in that court’s jurisdiction, 
and shall not affect the content or interpretation of this Code 
in other jurisdictions.
1.5.8 If conflicts occur between provisions of this Code 
and those of standards and documents referenced in Chapter 
3, this Code shall apply.
1.6—Building official
1.6.1 All references in this Code to the building official 
shall be understood to mean persons who administer and 
enforce this Code.
1.6.2 Actions and decisions by the building official affect 
only the specific jurisdiction and do not change this Code.
R1.5.4 General provisions are broad statements, such as 
a building needs to be serviceable. Specific provisions, such 
as explicit reinforcement distribution requirements for crack 
control, govern over the general provisions.
R1.5.5 ACI Concrete Terminology (2013) is the primary 
resource to help determine the meaning of words or terms 
that are not defined in the Code. Dictionaries and other reference materials commonly used by licensed design professionals may be used as secondary resources.
R.1.5.7 This Code addresses numerous requirements 
that can be implemented fully without modification if other 
requirements in this Code are determined to be invalid. This 
severability requirement is intended to preserve this Code and 
allow it to be implemented to the extent possible following 
legal decisions affecting one or more of its provisions.
R1.6—Building official
R1.6.1 Building official is defined in 2.3.
R1.6.2 Only the American Concrete Institute has the 
authority to alter or amend this Code.
American Concrete Institute – Copyrighted © Material – www.concrete.org
12 BUILDING CODE REQUIREMENTS FOR STRUCTURAL CONCRETE (ACI 318-14) AND COMMENTARY (ACI 318R-14)
CODE COMMENTARY
Copyright American Concrete Institute Provided by IHS under license with ACI Licensee=AECOM EW & Canada/5906698006, User=Hummel, George No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS Not for Resale, 02/22/2016 09:04:05 MST --`,,,,```,,,,,`,`,,,`,,`,``,`,-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---
1.6.3 The building official shall have the right to order 
testing of any materials used in concrete construction to 
determine if materials are of the quality specified.
1.7—Licensed design professional
1.7.1 All references in this Code to the licensed design 
professional shall be understood to mean the person who is 
licensed and responsible for, and in charge of, the structural 
design or inspection.
1.8—Construction documents and design records
1.8.1 The licensed design professional shall provide in the 
construction documents the information required in Chapter 
26 and that required by the jurisdiction.
1.8.2 Calculations pertinent to design shall be filed with 
the construction documents if required by the building official. Analyses and designs using computer programs shall 
be permitted provided design assumptions, user input, and 
computer-generated output are submitted. Model analysis 
shall be permitted to supplement calculations.
1.9—Testing and inspection 
1.9.1 Concrete materials shall be tested in accordance with 
the requirements of Chapter 26.
1.9.2 Concrete construction shall be inspected in accordance with the general building code and in accordance with 
Chapters 17 and 26.
1.9.3 Inspection records shall include information required 
in Chapters 17 and 26.
1.10—Approval of special systems of design, 
construction, or alternative construction materials
1.10.1 Sponsors of any system of design, construction, or 
alternative construction materials within the scope of this 
Code, the adequacy of which has been shown by successful 
use or by analysis or test, but which does not conform to or is 
not covered by this Code, shall have the right to present the 
data on which their design is based to the building official 
R1.7—Licensed design professional
R1.7.1 Licensed design professional is defined in 2.3.
R1.8—Construction documents and design records
R1.8.1 The provisions of Chapter 26 for preparing project 
drawings and specifications are, in general, consistent with 
those of most general building codes. Additional information may be required by the building official.
R1.8.2 Documented computer output is acceptable instead 
of manual calculations. The extent of input and output 
information required will vary according to the specific 
requirements of individual building officials. However, if a 
computer program has been used, only skeleton data should 
normally be required. This should consist of sufficient input 
and output data and other information to allow the building 
official to perform a detailed review and make comparisons using another program or manual calculations. Input 
data should be identified as to member designation, applied 
loads, and span lengths. The related output data should 
include member designation and the shears, moments, and 
reactions at key points in the span. For column design, it 
is desirable to include moment magnification factors in the 
output where applicable.
The Code permits model analysis to be used to supplement structural analysis and design calculations. Documentation of the model analysis should be provided with the 
related calculations. Model analysis should be performed by 
an individual having experience in this technique.
R1.10—Approval of special systems of design, 
construction, or alternative construction materials
R1.10.1 New methods of design, new materials, and new 
uses of materials should undergo a period of development 
before being covered in a code. Hence, good systems or 
components might be excluded from use by implication if 
means were not available to obtain acceptance.
American Concrete Institute – Copyrighted © Material – www.concrete.org
CHAPTER 1—GENERAL 13
CODE COMMENTARY
1
Copyright American Concrete Institute Provided by IHS under license with ACI Licensee=AECOM EW & Canada/5906698006, User=Hummel, George No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS Not for Resale, 02/22/2016 09:04:05 MST --`,,,,```,,,,,`,`,,,`,,`,``,`,-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---
or to a board of examiners appointed by the building official. This board shall be composed of competent engineers 
and shall have authority to investigate the data so submitted, 
require tests, and formulate rules governing design and 
construction of such systems to meet the intent of this Code. 
These rules, when approved by the building official and 
promulgated, shall be of the same force and effect as the 
provisions of this Code.
For special systems considered under this section, specific 
tests, load factors, deflection limits, and other pertinent 
requirements should be set by the board of examiners, and 
should be consistent with the intent of the Code.
The provisions of this section do not apply to model tests 
used to supplement calculations under 1.8.2 or to strength 
evaluation of existing structures under Chapter 27.
